`OK!` is an experimental, personal "table" rendering project. The name is an
homage to Mike Okuda, the graphics designer responsible for the iconic Star Trek
LCARS interface designs. The main `ok` project is not public, due to IP concerns.

Tables, speadsheets, diagrams are a powerful way to organize datums |---| pieces
of data that suggest relations by horizontal and vertical ranking. This model
is a classic one that goes back to the earliest of computing history. It was in 
1965 already when Ted Nelson already conceptualized an abstraction of a speadsheet
where each unique datum could lay not just in two dimensions (x/y, one row, on
column) but in an infinite space, with endless dimensions. And where all data
('cells') can appear once in each dimension, and only once for each dimension.
Giving rise to several secondary properties such as headcells, order and cycles.
And also concepts like operational dimensions vs. static ordered dimensions, such
as the clone dimensions to create instances of a datum in a secondary dimension,
to appear in one dimension at multiple places. Such abstraction allows to subsume
tree structures as well, making the tree branch nodes into cloned head-cells and
simply listing folder items in another dimension.

The basic rules of the structure guarantee easy plotting data in two dimenions,
and do allow powerusers efficient navigation and operation under the condition
that the amount of dimensions needed is limited or managable somehow.

Not much has happened in general since. Modern technologies reinvent how to do
some things, and lots of different high quality common libraries come available.
But to build e.g. a spreadsheet app still a lot of well-thought out work is
needed. And while two dimensions are easy, multiple dimensions and operational
dimensions are not.

LCARS-style Okudagrams established a decorative design that incorporates tables
too, but not on the regular level of movie-OS design. Instead of local mechanical
control or different levels of window-manager chrome, panes and dialogs--as has
evolved from the Xerox PARC UI--we get a colorful diagram, with abstract
representations of data. But in a uniform, seemingly modular look.

Its seductive on many levels:

- it is symmetrical and full of typical patterns, making it beautiful and hinting
  at some extensive modularity even if expressed as a untelligable sea of
  colors, numbers and abbreviations. |---| Starfleet officiers must be very
  intelligent indeed.
- its colorful, and bold! Even the font face is a statement on form; uniformity
  over detail.
- it is simple, only rectangulars and rounded rectangular element parts (in its
  pure forms). But it curves, wraps and adapts to whatever control surface
  extent. The black surfaces enhance the illusion of ubiquitious computing, it all
  becomes not just a giant ship, but a single organic interface to an immense organisation.
- its ranks of square angles, and added curves "suggest" many things. I'm interested
  in how it establishes it form, what are its elements and implications--beginnings and ends,
  groups, ordering, enclosure, separation, frame (or chrome) vs. content,
  context vs. text. It adds some much more expression, of visual "language" compared
  to the classic table/spreadsheet model.

It in short suggests complex, integrated data and structure, interaction and even
animation but with a very simple design element set. No doubt though many
different "languages" or "grammars" may be conjured up based on these elements.
